# Experiential_Probabilistic_Decision_Making_Task
Recent studies have shown that humans undervalue newly learnt probabilistic associations (e.g., an image of an apple implies a win probability of 70%) in favour of explicit representations of probabilities (a pie chart representing a 70% chance of winning). The current study examines one possible explanation of this ‘experiential’ neglect. We will test if learnt representations are underweighted because such associations inherently have a high degree of uncertainty.

The experiment will consist of three phases. The first, learning, phase enables participants to learn associations between arbitrary icons and specific probabilities of winning points. On each trial, they will be presented with two icons and asked to choose one of them. The choice leads to them winning or losing a point depending on the probability that is associated with each icon. In the second, main, phase, participants will be presented with one of the learnt icons and a pie-chart that explicitly represents the chance of winning or losing a point. Participants make a choice between these two, just as in the learning phase. We will manipulate the informativeness of the pie-charts by reorganising it in various ways: Specifically, each pie-chart is made of up of green and red segments; we will split the green segment into multiple subsegments and distribute them in various ways to manipulate the ease of inferring the probabilities the pie-charts represent. The inforamtion-estimation has been manipulated in 4 different ways ( 1.Basic pie-chart, 2. Equdistant distubution of 3 win/lose segments, 3. Random distribution and sizes of 3 win/lose segments, 4. 3 nested/stacked pie-charts of type 3 ). In the final phase, participants will be presented with the learnt icons and each of the pie-charts one at a time and will be asked to estimate the probability of winning associated with each icon, along with their confidence in their estimation. Their choice behaviour in the second phase and the confidence ratings in the third phase will help us assess whether uncertainty in value representation underlies the neglect of learnt representations.

I received funding from the University of Aberdeen for this study and am cunducting the experiment under supevision of Dr. Rama Chakravarthi.
I thank Colin Ries who coded the pie-chart function for this experiment (https://github.com/RieCo432).

